foreign
[Music]
that you're on a boat and you are going
down a river management is when you're
fighting against the Ripper
but when you're in that effortless flow
of the river
there's an enjoyment to it what you have
to do is you have to be listening to
that River deeply you have to be
listening to that impulse
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
foreign
we're told all of our lives that if we
want results we have to manage ourselves
and the world around us in order to get
what we want but what if that isn't true
what if intention and determination are
critical of managing life gets in the
way
what if the way to get the life we want
is to focus on enjoying our life not
only by doing what we enjoy but also by
learning to enjoy whatever is happening
this is what Joe and I will be getting
into today
so Joe what makes this an important
topic for you there's a personal story
behind it you know when I was
um really young in my career I did
International stock lending for a while
and I was you know still sorting through
so much of my personal issues at the
time and um
I I decided in my head what I really
wanted was to have a creative career
that and that was something that I
decided also was like far out there that
I had to like attain instead of
realizing that it was really available
if I had the right perspective
and so I
um quit this great job as far as money
goes and as far as
career path goes and I
went for seven years trying to have a
creative career
and there was this place where I was um
where I had basically reached it and I
was
working on this TV show
and I had written something and I was
being um brought in to train to direct
the show and
and I did this two-week stint on the
show and I realized it was this the same
thing that International stock lending
was meaning that everything that I had
run away from in international stock
lending I was running two in this
creative career one person had all the
power everybody was working long hard
hours they were unhappy
um I remember the actor of the TV show
saying to me you know every time I come
into work it's like having a piece of my
soul ripped out
um everybody wanted to be doing
something else and not the thing that
they were doing they had some dream of
the next level of their career
and most people weren't leaving because
of the money
and I said well that's exactly the thing
I was running away from and running to
and I had spent all these years of my
life trying to manage
this outcome
and I had finally achieved it but I
didn't have any idea that it wasn't the
thing that I wanted and at that moment
the Revelation came on me and I said wow
you know what I'm going to do instead
what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna say
yes to whatever shows up and if I enjoy
it I'll keep on saying yes and if I
don't enjoy it I'll say no
and then all of a sudden there's more
and more stuff to say yes to and so I
got to just keep on picking the things
that were more enjoyable
and as that happened everything took off
my money my happiness
my career everything in ways that I
couldn't even have expected it was like
I I had surrendered and I allowed that
surrender into my own enjoyment to lead
my life and all of a sudden I was
surrounded by a life that I enjoyed
I neither enjoyed stock lending nor did
I enjoy trying to become an artist nor
did I enjoy being the artist
but I ended up enjoying my life not by
managing it by focusing on the enjoyment
so that's that's why it's important to
me I think why it's important to talk
about in general is because it's the
biggest misconception that a lot of
people have is they think that if
they're going to manage their life
they're going to end up with a life that
makes them happy but in actuality if you
learn to manage your life you end up
with a life that you need to manage
and that is not happiness
hmm so what does it mean to manage your
life in the way that you're describing
one way to think about it is
intellectually you're trying to assure
an outcome so
when I was directing films one of the
things that I really realized in that
process was that if I had a very
specific outcome in mind of how the
actors were going to do their thing it
was horrible the result was horrible
everything was horrible the process was
horrible
If instead I gave the actors Direction
and then I just waited until it felt
right
and I just allowed that impulse to carry
us and go oh that's it that's what
that's going to work without the idea
specifically of how it was going to be
the results were far better
and that's one way to think about the
difference between management and
non-management
is that you're not holding really
specific future outcomes you're holding
the intention of the scene is going to
be great and it's going to be emotional
and you're holding the intention the
actors are holding the intention of
whatever it is for them getting the
person to say they love them and getting
out of the room whatever their
intentions are everybody's holding their
intentions but
the outcome is something that you are
recognizing when it's right it's not
something that you're being specific and
controlling about so there's this
implicit feeling of trying that happens
when you are doing management and trying
is very different than doing doing is
just the action it's like in mental
waves you think about doing as Alpha
there's like this Flow State that
happens and it's just everything's
happening and there's not like a lot of
tension in it
managing life is when you feel like you
have to bring tension into the process
to get it your way another great example
of this I think that's really
really palpable is I see this with
clients all the time is
they're thinking about a big
conversation they have to have maybe
it's with their husband maybe it's with
their boss maybe it's with a good friend
and they're trying to figure out how
they're going to say it in such a way
that they're going to get the outcome
that they want instead of thinking about
what's the authentic way for them to say
it what's their deepest truth that
they're trying to share and let the
chips fall where they may
if they're in the first then they're in
management and if they're in the second
then they are not in management
yeah I think the that film example is
actually a great one because in
filmmaking in production you'll often
have like an art Department that's
trying to make exactly the igloo that's
in the treatment
you know for the director when
you know maybe they could make any
number of igloos that fit the theme and
that would work great in the scene and
many other parts of the scene are likely
to drift through the course of
production from the treatment
and there are ways to flow with that and
there are ways to try to manage every
single detail
um which you just end up having the
entire crew of fighting reality for a
while yeah so it's something that I've
realized like when I'm running
businesses and
I want something a specific way that's
where it's creative or someone's doing
something creative and like copy editing
or
some sort of visual aspect or building
slides I've realized that if I just give
them three adjectives just
I wanted to be reliable grounded and
empowering
then the results are far better than if
I start thinking I know how to design
something and I'm like well it should be
a little more blue and turn this a
little way is like that kind of broad
stroke thing and people we know that
people in general and management of
people that people respond a lot better
are a lot more motivated if they feel
like they have autonomy and that doesn't
mean that they don't want Direction it
means they don't want Management in in
the way that I'm talking about
management right you see that a lot of
design as well micromanagement to design
is a great way to get terrible work from
a good artist exactly and and that's
everything is and there's a way of
looking at every person's role as an
artistry and you're going to get bad
work out of everybody's hardest Artistry
and that I think the other the other way
to look at it is imagine that you're on
a boat and you are going down a river
management is when you're fighting
against the Ripper and
when you are in the flow of the river
even if your paddles in the water every
once in a while and you're doing that
stuff but when you're in that effortless
flow of the river
there's an enjoyment to it and there's a
non-management but when you're fighting
against the river then you're in the
management and for that to happen you
have to to not be managing a river
which obviously never really works what
you have to do is you have to be
listening to that River deeply you have
to be listening to that impulse so then
when people are in management mode they
usually are not listening to their
internal impulse or the impulse of the
people around them so it sounds like the
the distinction to be made here is like
management is to try to
fight reality to conform to your results
and enjoyment in this concept is uh
more combining your intention with the
randomness of reality and
seeing what happens yeah that's right
it's also so I work with a lot of
Executives and this is one of the
hardest things for the executives to
really catch on to because they have all
made a living in being able to have this
determination and drive to get the
results
and many of them have used management to
get there that determination and drive
that utter unacceptance of a result
that's different than the one that you
want is really critical
but you need to be very general about
the result that you want like it can be
General like I want a company that's
super successful I want a product that
sells better than all the competition
that's great
but when you start managing that process
and want it to be this specific way you
want it to have this kind of sales
technique you wanted to have blah blah
blah blah blah then that's when it goes
south so you have to keep all that
determination you have to keep all that
fortitude you have to keep all that
utter unacceptance of a reality that
that you don't Envision and
there is also a reading the river and
letting the river flow and paying
attention to that River and following it
to get there a lot of this seems to
happen by buying into in the moment like
oh no this has to happen because if this
doesn't happen this particular way then
you know the entire plan is is ruined so
like how do you know like without this
30 30 000 foot view that we're
discussing right now how would you know
in the moment
if you are managing rather than
following your attention what are some
ways to
to mindfully recognize this in in the
process so one of the things that I see
managers do since we're on management
specifically one of the things that I
see managers do
is they don't ask this question they
don't say what speaks against that
let's say I come into a room and I say I
want
I want to sell in question based selling
and I'm we're talking to the sales team
I'm like let's do question based selling
and then I might try to convince
everybody and push everybody into it and
motivate everybody give a good speech
and everybody's like yeah let's do a
question based selling
what is usually far more effective and
that tells you that you're not in the
management of that experience is to say
Let me give a good case for question
based selling here it is now tell me
what speaks against it and people will
tell you here are the things that we
don't think will work about it that
tells you the things that you have to
address and then you address them and
then you're in the flow of the situation
then you're like okay and then most
likely you're going to get a much better
solution because the things that they
want you to address are important to
address and if you can't address them
then they you don't have real buy-in and
without real buy-in they're not going to
do as good of work but without real
buy-in it probably means that there's a
better solution out there
so that's one of the ways to know is if
you're trying to push people into a
result instead of being eager to find
out what um speaks against it when you
know when you when you're listening to
what speaks against it your results are
going to be far better so that's one one
way to know it
there's a delicious irony there the idea
of trying to sell a sales team on a
sales process about question based
selling without asking any questions
I hadn't I hadn't thought of that in my
example yes exactly that would be
incredibly ironic yeah exactly and it's
why question based selling works is
because you're not
managing the customer you're actually
empathizing with following the customer
you're following the river instead of
trying to manage the river
um so that's one way to know it
yeah other ways are you're more
listening to the outcome than you are
the impulse
right so like right now if you listen
for the impulse as to what to say
next
that's a very particular somatic
experience
and you can still have determination in
this experience right you can still be
feeling
like oh we're going to get to resolution
and I can be listening
and waiting for the impulse to speak
like that's all a very possible
situation
but when I want your next sentence to be
something or I want my sentence to do
something
to you to get to a particular place then
I'm in management
and that kind of that adds another step
in the like another filter in the
process of what you're going to say when
you have to think about how you think
it's going to be received exactly which
then builds in all of your projections
into the conversation it also builds a
tremendous amount of inefficiency when
you're managing stuff what you are
always doing is not looking at the root
cause right so as an example let's take
which is a more enjoyable car an mg to
own is it an mg or is it a Lexus most
most people who don't like fixing cars
would say Alexis is a far more enjoyable
car to own than an mg because you know
with an mg every 500 miles you have the
thing up on blocks and you have to do
something
and so when you are in management you're
just constantly trying to figure out how
to fix the mg with the least amount of
money in as quickly as possible but when
you're in enjoyment you're looking at
the core issue right and so if you are
looking at the core issue everything
becomes far more efficient
because you're not trying to
you know patch the boat as it's as it's
sinking instead you're thinking what's
the right boat to build right yeah
getting out of context to the better
bigger question exactly so we have
learned to manage things for a reason
many would propose so like don't you
have to manage some level of things for
anything to get done and if if so what
is where is that line it's not where you
think it is that's for sure
what I mean to say is if you ask the
people at Hyatt hey man do you have to
manage your properties they'd say
absolutely if you ask the people at
Airbnb do you have to manage your
properties they'd say no if you ask
you know SK Telecom and all those
telecom companies that tried apps before
Apple did do you have to manage your
apps
at the building of the apps they'd say
yes absolutely we need to manage it but
Apple said no we don't we just
as long as they hit a minimum
requirement they can be on the App Store
right and if you think about all your
great employees
like how much management do they
actually require it's the people that
you're managing that are not usually
your great employees
so and maybe because you're managing
them so hard indeed right so do you have
to manage and what's the boundary the
answer is is that the the better your
system is in place the better you have
the mechanism working the less
management is necessary so every place
that you are managing is basically a way
to look at an inefficiency that you have
if you build a really good machine say
like an iPhone you don't have to manage
the iPhone you you and I have never said
the word wow I really had to manage my
iPhone yesterday
it's because it works we might have to
manage our iPhone use and that arises
from inefficiencies in our attention
exactly that's right and even that so
that's that's the self-management part
right which is
you can say oh I need to manage myself
my cell phone use or you can
turn off all your notifications
and you can turn your phone into black
and white and don't allow for color
usage on your phone
or you can
um you know put on the sleep mode
there's all sorts of things that you can
do so that you don't actually even have
to manage your your cell phone usage
that it's all done so I can find out
what it is in my emotions that makes me
want to go to Instagram and start
scrolling yes exactly exactly yeah all
different levels of it so even managing
your own state is is ineffective and in
fact that's the thing about meditation
generally is that most people call
sitting still and trying to manage your
State of Mind meditation it's not
meditation it's torture and enjoyment of
sitting there is meditation yes
management is going to happen this isn't
something that you get upset about
is it something you're going to never
have to do in your whole life no but
every time you're managing something you
can absolutely see it as a chance to
become more efficient and the way that
you find that efficiency is through
enjoyment
that's great the other thing that
happens here oftentimes when people are
talking about they're like yeah but I
gotta manage my company I gotta like
I gotta like tell people what to do and
then you look at other companies there's
this company called valve there's this
valve handbook which is just amazing and
the way they manage what they do is they
figured out how to choose really good
people they have a whole thing about
that
and then
they when you get to valve you have a a
desk that's on Wheels and where you push
your desk
is what projects they do so there's not
even somebody saying okay these are the
projects we're going to do here's our
big initiatives they literally just have
people roll their desks to what they
want to do and those are the initiatives
that get done in the company
if you look at our entire economy like
we have like four tools to manage our
economy and we don't do it very well
right there's just like interest rates
and
you know how constraining the laws are
for businesses Etc
and our whole economy doesn't have a
manager and yet we're the biggest
economy in the world and we're and so
far we have been the most um the most
resilient economy in the world
so is there really a need for management
is there really a need for that level of
centralization and there may be in
certain circumstances but guaranteed
there is a more efficient
system out there
and when somebody finds it they will be
the winner of
that business and their life will be
more enjoyable
it sounds like there if somebody wants
to start experimenting with loosening
management and finding more enjoyment
there there seems to be a requirement
for a certain amount of slack in the
system like if you if you're running a
company that's just barely making
payroll month after month after month
and you imagine that if you just stop
managing people and the way that you're
currently managing them and you even
have one or two hiccups then that then
everything is all over or imagine in a
personal in a life where somebody's like
well you know I'm working you know three
jobs right now to make ends meet and if
I just started focusing on enjoyments
then
you know if I if I left one of those
jobs well then I'm not going to feed my
family how would you respond to to that
or how does that like how would you
respond to there being a a feeling for a
need for a slack or people's fear that
they don't have enough slack to try and
experiment in this way I would say that
they're looking at enjoyment in a
backwards way it meaning there's one way
to look at enjoyment which is here are
the things in my head says that I will
enjoy when I do it like me having a
creative career
but your head doesn't really know what
you're going to enjoy
so you can try to organize a life where
everything you do is enjoyable
meaning that you've chosen things to do
that you enjoy that you think you enjoy
or you can learn to enjoy the things
that you're doing
so I'll give you an example of this this
is um when I was I don't know 27 years
old or something like that I did this
experiment where I said I'm not going to
do anything I don't enjoy for a month
and see how that goes
and for the first three or four days it
was everything that I enjoyed I took a
nap when I wanted to take a nap I you
know did everything but then like the
trash started smelling
and I was like well I'm not enjoying
living with no trash and I don't enjoy
taking out the trash what the hell am I
gonna do
and I learned oh wow there how do I take
out the trash and enjoy myself
how do I write emails and enjoy myself
how do I pay bills and enjoy myself
because I don't enjoy not being having
bills I'm paid or having a bad credit
rating that's not enjoyable for me
so the only way to really get to a life
that you enjoy is to is to not avoid the
intensity it's not to
run away from difficult things it's
finding the pleasure in whatever you're
doing is it has to be a major part of
the equation so if you have three jobs
and you need the three jobs to get by
then learn to enjoy the jobs that you
have learn how to do them with more
enjoyment and watch when you do your job
with more enjoyment your job changes
pretty darn quick
people want to be around people who are
enjoying themselves people want to work
with people who are enjoying themselves
and people will be attracted to you
people will give you more opportunities
enjoyment
it's the same thing in your business if
it's like maybe you don't have the
ability to do a re-embetting
organizations where the management is so
low that people are deciding their own
uh payroll and people are deciding you
know
people on the bottom line of a company
like the manufacturing line of a company
are deciding what three million dollar
pieces of equipment to buy those are
companies that are run like that maybe
you can't get there tomorrow
maybe it's not even smart for your
company to get there
but the question that you can always ask
is what's making this so unenjoyable and
how do I enjoy this process and and that
is going to build efficiency in your
company
the thing is that there's somebody's
mind right now when they're listening to
me and they're saying
this isn't necessary
I can be successful without enjoying
myself and that is so true you can be
successful financially
you can accumulate a lot of power
you can have
a good looking mate on your side you can
um
have all the toys that you want and not
enjoy yourself that's absolutely 100 the
case
um they're not actually even correlated
that kind of success and enjoyment
there's a lot of people that successful
who don't enjoy themselves and there's a
lot of people that successful who do
enjoy themselves
but what I am saying is that you can
have both
and if you are having both you are
finding efficiencies
yeah so let's let's define enjoyment
then a lot of people think of enjoyment
as like there is sort of a sense of
control people have the freedom to do
what they want to do but a lot of what
it seems like you're describing with
enjoyment is that it doesn't really
require freedom for example you could be
working three jobs and be micromanaged
and potentially find enjoyment in what
you're doing so can you talk a little
bit more about that yeah absolutely I
can so there are people in jail right
now enjoying themselves there are people
on this earth right now who are sitting
in three by three cells who haven't lied
down in two years two months and a day
who are doing it to learn how to enjoy
themselves that's that's part of the
Llama tradition right the the enjoyment
is available to you right now like right
now I can say to everybody who's
listening to this hey enjoy yourself
just a little bit more right now
just a little just allow a little more
enjoyment in at this moment my entire
body just relaxed a little bit right
exactly like what did that take
what had to be your condition did not
change at all like you know you're in
the same space you have the same bank
account you have the same
girlfriend you every nothing's changed
and you just enjoyed yourself a little
bit more enjoyment doesn't cost anything
enjoyment is just a a perspective
it's just an allowing it's it's just a
receiving it's a it's a visceral
it requires us to be a little more
present
that's it it requires us maybe to be a
little bit more in our body it's not
something that is ever inaccessible to
us I mean this this is definitely an
internal thing as well we've been
talking a lot about enjoyment in in our
environment in our circumstances in our
in our businesses in our organizations
how does how does this management and
enjoyment Dynamic work internally in the
way that we just experienced yeah it's a
bit of a mystery exactly how it works
um what I what I've seen is that
internally there's a
a capacity to feel pleasure that is like
a muscle almost it's a nerve it's a
nervous system thing but it feels like
it's a muscle in the fact that you can
build it you can build the capacity for
this feeling of enjoyment in your life
and this feeling of pleasure and that
there's a certain amount of overwhelm
that happens
when you feel too much of it and your
level of too much is going to be
different than my level of too much
which is going to be different than the
person C's level of too much what makes
it be too much I'll tell you what it I
think it is is if you if you put your
hands together and like put your hands
like your thumb and your fingers all
together and then intertwine your
fingers
and now intertwine your fingers in the
opposite way so that your hand looks the
same but your pinkies have switched
positions
and you'll notice that one of those ways
is comfortable the first way is
comfortable the second way is
uncomfortable yeah interesting pleasure
being too much is very much like that
it's just what you're used to it's very
much a level of comfort based on what
you're used to and based on what your
nervous system feels safe handling
if your certain nervous system had to be
on high alert to feel safe as a child
then
there's a low level of pleasure that you
are going to allow yourself and
enjoyment that you're going to allow
yourself because you're going to feel
unsafe
and if you were deeply nurtured as a
child
then that level of pleasure and
enjoyment is going to be much higher and
we can train our nervous systems to
start accepting higher and higher levels
of pleasure it seems like there's an
inverse relationship between enjoyment
and like letting our guard down so the
more enjoyment we're experiencing the
more down our guard must be and there's
some baseline level of guard that we
must
viscerally believe
is required to be safe
does that make sense that's right that's
exactly right what you're basically
saying there is that you have to believe
that a certain level of defense is
necessary to be able to protect yourself
which also means that you don't believe
that you can respond in the moment that
you have to be prepared and that is one
of the main things that
that creates us not listening to our
impulse not watching the river
is that idea that we have to be prepared
so we're not in the moment in the
present moment handling the thing that's
in front of us
or that we're in the future in a way
that's very hard right we're not in the
future in a soft way you can be in the
future and be like Oh and dream in the
future and have intentions in the future
but most of the time when we're in the
future we're trying to control the
future and and that's like the perfect
example of management like that's the
most and we do this internally all the
time
is that
we're literally having conversations in
our head to control the future have you
noticed that the conversations that
you've had about how you want the future
to go they have never worked out
specifically as you planned you think
about how you're going to have the
conversation 10 different ways
and it never happens that way it always
happens differently so we're thinking
about our thoughts we're trying to
manage our future it never works out
and it's definitely not enjoyable where
that's called spin we're just spinning
right and now imagine that you're in
that conversation with that person and
you're just like listening to the
impulse and focused on enjoying the
conversation which results in a lot more
listening to what they're saying as well
exactly and it helps them feel connected
with you and you feel more heard they
feel more heard the conversation goes
better
so it's the same thing internally
internally we're trying to manage
ourselves all the time hey lose weight
hey
get more in shape hey you should listen
more hey you should stop managing hey
whatever it is that your brain is
constantly telling yourself you should
manage and it doesn't work very well
it's not the most efficient way by any
stretch and we do this in meditation and
we do this in yoga and we do this in now
what is it like to to meditate and focus
on enjoyment
not just doing something that you enjoy
but also enjoying what you're doing or
what is it like to do yoga and focus on
enjoyment
or CrossFit for that matter
exactly so what's the internal what's
the internal thing that you do and when
you're managing and how effective is it
compared to enjoyment and the amazing
thing is I could say to somebody hey
look whatever internal exercise you do
just focus on enjoyment just enjoy that
exercise that's your number one thing to
do
and if they do it most people won't
because they're like uh enjoyment scary
subconsciously but if they do it what
they notice is that they do it a lot
more because it's more enjoyable if
meditation isn't enjoyable you don't
keep on meditating
if working out isn't enjoyable you don't
keep on working out
so the enjoyment like propels the the
practice and telling yourself you should
do it and you really have to do it you
have to do better and stronger and it's
not very enjoyable and so you stop doing
it right
the the other thing that's important
here to say is that the reason you think
you have to manage yourself is because
you don't see that you're inherently
good you don't believe in your inherent
goodness you believe that you're like
some lazy
gluttonous if you were left your
own devices and that you need to be
whipped into shape
and if you believe that about yourself
then that's who you're going to end up
being and if you believe that you are
inherently good that you want what's
best for you and the people around you
and that you want to have an active
enjoyable fulfilling life then what on
Earth would need would you need to be
managed for
if you want that stuff what would make
it that you wouldn't just naturally do
it it seems that that would also show up
in the way that you manage or treat your
employees or expect to be managed or
treated by a boss yes any Moss that
you've ever had who is a micromanager I
guarantee you they micromanage
themselves horribly and and if they're
not depressed now they will be
and if they don't have major anger
issues they will have any boss that you
have that's that is constantly in fear
for how you are behaving is in
constantly in fearing how they're
behaving it's just the nature of it it's
why the self-development work works so
well in companies is because
you are projecting your internal
relationship externally so yeah let's
let's dig into more about how this uh
this management enjoyment Dynamic shows
up in relationships yeah here's a story
that I think
freaks everybody out and it's a good
it's very apropos
I have two girls
I don't think there's any time I punish
them and I don't think my wife ever
punished them we we got angry from time
to time that absolutely happened
um
I'm sure they felt ashamed from time to
time though we did our very best not to
ever shame them
and
the thought process then is that what
your kids must be spoiled and that your
kids must not do what they're told and
your kids must not
behave well and if you get into my home
what you find out is that my kids are
amazing kids and it's like so palpable
that when people come they're like oh
wow like you have amazing children how
did you raise them like that question
gets asked all the time
and even after they see our kids they're
just most people are dumbfounded that's
how we did it
it's what we trusted and that they
wanted to be connected with us we
trusted that they wanted to be connected
with themselves and when they were
connected with themselves
they
um would show up thoughtfully and
lovingly
and with care and that's what they did
that's how it worked out and we never
said to them hey you're a bad person hey
you you're naughty and we need to
control that naughtiness like that never
happened so they never believed that
they were naughty they just saw that we
saw them as good and they ended up as
good
so obviously some adults that would take
years and years and years of treating
them that way for them to act that way
so I'm not suggesting that you go around
and like go into a Maximum Security
Prison and treat all of them like
they're amazing
people who are inherently good because
unless they believe that there's going
to be friction to get to that point but
in general that's the way that you walk
around in relationship the way you walk
around is that
you find out what's motivating them find
out what's moving them find out what
they want to do and follow that flow
instead of saying this is what I want
you to do and do that like you see this
happen all the time of one person
convinces another person to join a
project
if I'm hiring somebody for a project I
basically say what's your dream job and
if they're not really close to the job
that I have in mind it's not a good fit
I'd rather have somebody whose dream job
it is to do the job that I have in mind
than to convince someone to do something
because eventually I'm going to have to
manage them
it says something that I learned in
making Investments and
what I realized was that the amount of
management that it took to make a deal
happen was the same amount of management
that I would have to consistently
provide to make the deal work then
that's really if inefficient at
investing
so if I have to if I I learned that if I
had to manage to get a deal done I just
would not do the deal because it was the
deals that happened with a certain
amount of flow and ease
that then continued with that same
amount of flonies obviously
there's ups and downs with everything
but generally that Flonase was far more
likely
there's also that like disempowering
factor of managing like if you if you
invest in if you invest in somebody's
company
and then you manage them you're really
saying that you don't trust their idea
unless it's done the way you think it
should be done yes that's right that
brings you back to that prison example
as well because like you know you could
go into Maximum Security Prison it's
like yes on one hand you can't just
relax all the restrictions and
behave as though everybody knows their
inherent goodness but we could actually
stop doing a lot of the things that we
do that reinforce those uh I am bad
belief like there's a lot of yes you
know talk about how the system
reinforces itself absolutely you can go
in and treat every single person in a
Maximum Security Prison like they are
good people and that absolutely will
help them there's a
a great video
um a documentary called being human and
there's a if you look it up online
Leonard being human you will see an
example of somebody who was killed a a
woman and her child
and the grandmother of that woman and
the child
showed him a certain amount of love that
changed his life and you can see it it's
it's absolutely doable and that's how it
works in relationships when the other
thing is like when you're trying to be
managed in a relationship you don't want
to be in the damn relationship that's
just there's some part of you whether it
is you are getting sold a car and the
person's trying to manage you into
buying the car
you don't want to be in the relationship
and that sales person isn't as
successful they know that the best car
salesmen are the ones who focus on
having a good relationship that don't
try to sell the car and they outperform
the ones trying to sell the car
like usually four or five to one
but it's the same thing we see it in our
love life our husbands our wives our
girlfriends boyfriends that when we are
trying to manage the other person's mood
there is less love when we are trying to
manage the other person's reaction
there is less love there's less
enjoyment in the relationship right if
you are enjoying the person there's a
lot less management if you're enjoying
the moment you know there's a lot less
management but as in the prison example
you can have boundaries yeah you can
have boundaries without having to manage
anything a boundary is following an
Impulse that's a great great point
having a boundary is basically the
deepest Act of non-management on some
level and the reason it is is because
what you're saying is here's what I'm
going to do
and then you allow the other person to
do what they are going to do right which
is like hey what I know is that
interacting in this kind of a
relationship isn't working for me so if
I'm going to continue to act in this
relationship
then
what I want is it to not have a lot of
yelling and I want it to be respectful
and kind
now that person can leave
and they might they might leave you
so it's really a non-management it's
just saying this is what I'm game for
this is what I'm willing to do in this
world and that's what non-management is
to a large degree that's what creates an
enjoyable life even if it's scary to get
there it sounds like what you're what
you've been saying would be also if if
the partner is going to leave you and
then you're going to have a lot of
uncomfortable feelings because of that
and sadness then that is also something
to be enjoyed absolutely or we're going
to be trapped by it right that's enough
fear of it yeah that's another way
people most of what we are trying to
manage in our life is an emotional
reality we're trying to manage emotions
trying to not feel heartbreak when our
lover leaves us trying to not feel like
a failure if our boss gets angry at us
and the non-management of those
emotional states and when I say
non-management I don't mean that now
you're like a puddle on the floor
throwing temper tantrums and throwing
and throwing tennis rackets around your
house I'm not saying non-management in
that way
I'm saying like allowing yourself to
feel the emotions fully not act out on
them
but allowing the non-management of
emotions so that you can actually feel
them fully and you're not trying to push
them down and repress them and hold your
muscles to not feel them or judge other
people not to feel them then that is a
far more productive
way of changing
patterns in your life than all the
management of telling yourself you
should do this or do that and you you
even mentioned it at the beginning of
the podcast you talked about or I could
just look at emotionally what's
happening
when I scroll on Instagram and what I'm
trying to avoid
so how can we cultivate the enjoyment of
those those feelings that we are trying
to avoid by managing
well stop resisting them that's half of
the lack of enjoyment is the management
itself
stop trying to manage them and they all
of a sudden become a lot more enjoyable
stop resisting them
a lot of the things about emotional
states that we find out is that
it is the resistance to them that's
painful not the actual emotion itself
it's the fear of them that's painful not
the actual emotional itself all of it is
a physical sensation in your body it has
different intensities
but once it's unresisted they change
rapidly the the sensation of them
changes rapidly no one's ever really
been killed by an emotion or maimed by
an emotion internally maybe an angry
person named somebody else but
if you internally are feeling your
emotions you're not going to be wounded
but we can slowly through the process of
managing and suppressing our emotions we
can slowly kill ourselves with stress
that's true and depression yeah yeah
exactly generally that's the thing about
management is we think we need it and
what it actually is is just this a
constant signal that we can find a more
efficient way in a more enjoyable way
and just dropping the management itself
can be
enjoyment and and it's just about just
to say it's just about like taking your
hand of control away from it slowly
you know some people after listening to
this is like okay I'm just not going to
manage any of my employees ever again
and then everything goes to and
then they'll be like yes that's right I
needed to manage it and I've proven that
I do need to manage it
what I'm saying is just like see see
what the next level of enjoyment is see
what the next level because you have to
find the new ways of being without
management and an example of this
I think that's really critical is
like you you're sitting with a bunch of
employees and or people that you work
with and you need a job done let's say
you need the the car cleaned right and
the least amount of management is to see
if anybody cleans the car
which may happen
if they have the right to find roles and
everything like that Reinventing
organization style somebody might just
come and clean the car because they see
it needs to get done and then there's
like hey I need the car cleaned
and then there's like I need to get the
car cleaned and this way this way this
way and then make sure you detail this
and do this and then there's car cleanse
just like hey I need the car cleaned and
I need it to look like it looks when you
get off of a new car lot and I need it
to be done for less than 150 dollars and
I need you to enjoy yourself doing it
huh where you give people the parameters
of what a good job is but you don't tell
them how to do it you just tell them how
to win right and you don't see a lot of
people doing it that way you don't see
that that interim step
the interim step of letting people
discover how to do it in a way that
meets that allows let them to win
because most people want to know how to
win if you keep determination and you
keep intention and you keep boundaries
and you keep
maintaining and and mandating the the
results that you want
then how how necessary is management
the management is just the fear that
you're not going to get there
people are going to hurt you that people
aren't going to show up well you've been
saying that in this entire episode is
that in order to stop managing
we need to be willing to feel
and enjoy feeling
these emotions that we're trying to
avoid like fear and that sounds like a
really interesting topic to get into on
on another episode indeed yes indeed
yeah there's a great way to think about
that which is we often try to figure
stuff out before we actually allow the
feeling of stuff and if we really let
that feeling happen and learn how to
enjoy that feeling then most of what
we're trying to figure out doesn't need
to be figured out anymore
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]